hello everyone my name is Alex and I'm
Jay and welcome to our eighty-two Isles
task of the week bananas what are we
gonna do today Alex well we've done part
one speaking we did part two speaking so
today it is part three IELTS speaking
all right rock and roll and more
specifically what are we gonna do it's
pretty short and sweet today we're gonna
do an overview I'll tell you all about
part three we will look at the question
types and a few strategies and then
we're gonna do some questions okay cool
now there you gonna do some questions -
yeah we're gonna do some me and you ha
ha ha ha very good all right cool
bananas let's get started look at IELTS
speaking part 3 so what happens in part
3 of this test
well this generally takes four to five
minutes and you remember you've done a
part two by this stage a two-minute talk
and the questions in part three are
connected to that part to talk okay
I remember that I spoke about a movie
that I enjoyed I reckon I talked about
Shawshank Redemption and free solo so
they're gonna ask me lots of questions
about free solo who was the main actor
no no so these questions now less about
you and they've become more abstract and
broader and a bit deeper so they're not
gonna ask you about near the director or
the actors they're gonna ask you maybe
about the movie industry or about
celebrities or about the arts like do
you think the government should invest
more in the arts something like that
okay so it becomes quite sort of
philosophical doesn't it yeah yeah can
do this part of the test also the
examiner can go off script so part one
until they're very closely following a
script in part three they they're free
to adjust the questions add questions
take questions out so if you're a really
strong candidate they're gonna ask you
some really challenging questions I
remember when I did and I on one of the
IELTS tests I did the examiner might ask
card was about happiness and she
actually was looking for this particular
task card and go so why do this one and
then she asked me all these like
really abstract interesting questions
about the nature of happiness yeah
exactly how it works so if you were not
such a strong kid today those questions
would be a little bit simpler like what
things make children happy okay okay so
they can increase and decrease the
difficulty according to who they're
speaking to yeah yeah so it's my
flexible much more flexible than part 1
and part 2 okay more of a discussion
cool all right so what are the types of
questions that they're going to ask us
lots of them but a few that spring to
mind they'll ask you your opinion for
example how important is job
satisfaction or do you think children
today are more badly behaved than those
in the past
they might ask you to compare something
okay so things like do younger people
and older people prefer different types
of art do men and women have different
attitudes to money and they'll usually
finish with a question that asks you to
predict something talk about the future
like will it be possible to prevent this
environmental damage in the future do
you think people will live on another
planet one day mm-hmm so I imagine with
these prediction questions you're going
to have to use some verb tenses like
going to get meal yes modal's like good
and word exactly I doubt it's inevitable
interesting language like that okay
that's cool
nice lots of other types of questions so
just three of them okay all right so I
believe some of our wonderful YouTube
subscribers had some questions and our e
to language students perhaps let's go
through these so Alex what if I don't
know anything about the topic for
example let's say the examiner says to
me something like okay now I'm going to
ask you a specific question about
particle physics the good news is
they'll never ask you anything like that
they're not gonna ask you about ya
trivia type things who's the president
of blah blah lands
anything specific about maths thank
goodness physics all of the questions
are about things that you know about you
don't need specialist knowledge so we do
hear this a lot what if I don't know
about the question then same for writing
but you you do know about the question
and and you can always answer even if
you say I don't know anything about that
actually but that's still language that
is what the test is it really doesn't
matter how much you know it don't know
about a particular issue okay it feels
to me that with these types of questions
they ask you in part three that you can
have quite simple answers or you can
have very complex answers and sort of up
to you yeah yeah cuz I remember one of
them was about advertising I think the
thing I spoke about was it was it was a
product or something and then the part
three questions are about you know how
do you feel about advertising what are
the implications of advertising so you
know I could have answered quite simply
or as I tried to do it as you should do
is try to answer in a more sophisticated
way yeah and you probably end up doing a
combination so they might have started
by asking what are some ways that
advertisers attract customers so then
you're listing things billboards and
they use jingles and gimmicks and blah
blah and then it can become a bit more
abstract hmm about them yeah the
motivation of consumers or the impact of
consumerism those type of okay so you'll
probably do a mixture of these okay cool
but I'll broadly know about all the
topics yeah great okay another question
what if I don't understand the question
as in like I don't understand what the
ions examiner sent to me that's that's
totally fine as well and same in part
one you might just not catch what they
said or perhaps you don't know a word
and the good thing about IELTS with an
actual person is you can ask them and
they don't penalize you for it you're
not gonna lose points for that it's it's
in your best interest if you don't
really understand you could just say
could you ask that again or I'm sorry
I'm not quite sure what you mean or did
you say
whatever the word is and they'll yeah
does this reword it they'll say it in
another way but even in part one they
can give you a little bit of help right
without going off-script
too much okay that's good to know
what if the examiner interrupts me what
does that mean clearly that means
something's going wrong right no we get
this quite a bit people freak out when
the examiner interrupts because you're
not expecting it and you might feel like
it's it's rude or that yeah you've said
something wrong but there's generally
two reasons why I think salmon will
interrupt you one of them is about the
timing so the examiner has certain
questions they want to ask you in this
short space of time okay so if you're
going on too long they might just cut
you off because they want to hear you
compare something or they want to hear
you talk about the future uh-huh so it's
not like you've said something wrong or
they're sick of what you're you're
talking about okay they're just trying
to get to the next thing and the other
reason this is particularly important in
part three well only relevant in part
three if you're talking about yourself
uh-huh so if I ask you about yeah how do
advertisers attract people and you start
telling me I bought an iPhone because I
saw an ad and they might stop you then
because part three is not about you
broadly about the world you've already
talked about you part 1 part 2 okay so
they might just stop you and redirect
the question but don't panic yeah it's
not it's not the end of the world yeah
they're just redirecting the exam okay
okay cool all right noise that's good to
know as well am I allowed to UM and oh
yeah yeah it's fine it's very normal
it's very natural it's natural it
becomes a problem when you hesitate
between every word like this and the
best way to eliminate that is record
yourself yeah we'll do a practice test
with a teacher yeah they'll show you but
a normal amount of hesitation is it's
normal okay normal amount is normal do
you know what I mean can I can I let me
ask that
can I can i if I'm going to say so can I
correct myself for example yeah also
fine
not too much yes no every cent is by if
you realize that was the wrong word
ending wrong there yeah fix it up oh
okay good fair enough
now if it's raining cats and dogs
outside I'm just about to kick the
bucket but there are two sides the one
coin can I use idioms yeah you can use
idioms in aisle speaking it's not so
much you know it's writing but it's part
of the criteria in fact to use less
common and idiomatic language we would
recommend leaning on some phrasal verbs
that you're confident with yeah um
unless you're very very comfortable and
confident with those kind of idioms
raining cats and dogs
I probably avoid them they're not that
impressive they're a little bit overdone
cliched yeah but a phrasal verb in the
right spot yeah yeah effective yeah for
example like if you're talking about
advertising I guess a phrasal verb would
be you know it picked up my attention
does that make sense no that doesn't
make sense
what's a phrasal verb anyway maybe you
can write one below us help if you are
talking about advertising what's a good
phrasal verb there you go just a
deflected that one away from me very
good all right let's talk about some
eetu strategies I believe you have three
of them yeah but you can check them out
on our course you know IELTS course or
in a lot of classes we see them a lot so
I'm just gonna run you through three
just just before you do if you're
watching this on youtube click the
subscribe button become a subscriber a
bit more importantly get off YouTube and
go and check out WWE to languish calm
where you can sign up for free and get
access to sample questions some methods
lessons and lots of cool stuff including
free live classes so it's not all
happening here on YouTube it's over
there on the website yeah give you three
oh yes a first method is it's pretty
obvious one but explain your answers so
if I ask you do you think children today
are more badly behaved
then kids in the past mm-hmm you might
say yeah yes they are terrible terrible
children but then I need to eat laborat
yeah but tell me how what do they do now
and tell me why why are kids today worse
than a parsec stretch that answer out
keep in mind no yes or no answers of
course you can say yes as the beginning
and then go on
why how elaborate yeah um just there's a
rule of thumb how long should I answer
for for the part three questions I think
for this you should watch the examiners
body language you can usually feel when
they're trying to move the conversation
along yeah but yeah as a general rule we
usually practice in the live classes
with about forty to fifty seconds per
answer see that's quite a long time as
yeah you can't just have a single
sentence or even a couple of sentences
it has to be a pretty well thought-out
response yeah and it is a bit of a
conversation - so the examiner might
pick up on something that you said
there's a phrasal verb pick up on
something you said and and follow that a
little bit more asking why or howdy how
do you mean or tell me more about that
so it doesn't always mean question fifty
second answer it can be a little bit
more good that makes it easier okay now
buying time I was gonna make a joke here
about bribing the IELTS examiner which
you cannot do what does buying time mean
this is when you get asked a really deep
question or big question mmm like what's
the meaning of life yeah what's the
meaning of life what is happiness I've
got a three word answer for you know I
don't but yeah if I ask you what is the
biggest problem in the world right now
it's sort of weird if you answer
immediately the biggest problem in the
world right now is that it's sort of
strange like that's a really difficult
question I know that there's a there's
some jerk video is about how I'll it's
cancer
overuse the expression that's a
difficult question that's a big question
but it's it's not it's natural yeah and
sometimes that is a difficult question
that is a big question rather than leave
a silence where you're thinking and the
examiners wondering yeah
URI yeah did you understand you can buy
time by using hesitation devices things
like um well oh yeah that's interesting
or I've never really thought about that
oh let me think about that
I think so just a little bit of filler
cuz you know speakers hate silence I
mean the English exams silence can give
the examiner the impression that you are
searching for language but if you're
searching for ideas that's fine so
you're just letting them know I'm
getting there just give me a second yeah
okay
cool all right that's natural that
sounds good
consider two views what does this mean
this is also a strategy if if I ask you
let's say about your opinion and you not
really sure yet uh-huh start telling me
what other people think so is
advertising just advertising have a
negative effect on children I would
start by saying well a lot of people say
that and they seem to think that love a
blood eventually I'll say personally mm
I agree with them or personally I tend
to feel that I feeling different yeah so
talk about what other people think this
is what I think or what people thought
in the past versus what people think now
yeah so it's just a way of contrasting
and stretching out your answer cool all
right right that sinks it oh that makes
a lot of sense shell me practice yeah
okay
and I think I'm gonna choose one of
these is that right yeah so we've put
together some questions that you guys
and our students have sent in from their
speaking test and yeah it's all very
well to talk about hot three but let's
do it so Jay let's be a question huh
yeah question
and we'll say something you guys as well
okay
do you think the government should care
about historical sites the government uh
well I think that absolutely yes the
government needs to care about
historical sites if the government
didn't pay attention to those places and
invest money things that spring to mind
would be like the pyramids in Egypt for
instance if the government didn't take
an interest in that it falls to the
people and to organizations which do
have a role to play but ultimately yeah
I think that the government has to
protect their history it's part of their
culture it should be part of their
education system as well and it makes
sense to me that they invest heavily in
that nice collocation their invest
heavily unlike that cool I guess work
okay Jay yes is it important to save
water in your country well it is very
important in Australia to save water
because we've been in a drought for like
four hundred thousand years apparently
and I believe Australia is one of the
driest continents on the planet if not
the driest continent so I think water
saving measures like having a shower for
just a minute or two and maybe even just
stop showering I wouldn't say that needs
them is very important should I go on no
because I would as an examiner I'd
probably say what are some other ways
people could save what I say right yeah
oh the examine that's always there to
keep let's split going then I think
people should stop washing their cars
for example we sit we tend to use a lot
of water washing our cars and it just
seems like an absolute waste and that
water just goes straight down the drain
I also think we should be capturing
water off our roof roof roof rubes roofs
of our houses there you go I wouldn't do
that in the exam either
one more all right let's get going this
is fun our social media apps spreading
fake news oh our social media yeah I
think that fake news is being spread by
a lot of sources and social media
yeah they they're definitely
contributing to this something like
Facebook for instance has been embroiled
in quite a big controversy relating to
the u.s. election where it was
discovered that there were stories being
shared on that platform that may not
have had a basis in reality and that's
just one example of many I think this is
due to the fact that social media
platforms not they're not really
governed by the rules that a traditional
media outlet is so there's nobody there
aligned their facts doesn't go through
an editor I can post whatever I want
and if it's interesting enough my
friends will share it and in that way
fake news can be proliferated throughout
the world yeah and it was a precise use
as well good listen one more I wanted to
go like this I'll do it seriously this
time no jokes alright do you think
children should be allowed to make their
own decisions whoa that's an interesting
question
I think some kids are mature enough to
make their own decisions and that may be
at a very young age other children on
the other hand tend to mature a bit
later so perhaps decisions should be
made for them I think the decisions
could be made by parents or teachers but
in ultimately it depends on what the
decision is about if it's just a trivial
thing like a very small thing that sure
let the child decide for himself or
herself but if it's a large thing like
where they're gonna go to school or if
they're gonna get a job or when they're
gonna get their license for example
I think those bigger decisions should be
made with another person okay that was
okay
no jokes that was great I'm gonna ask
one and you guys can write your answer
in the comment section show us what
you've got see if you can get a phrasal
verb in there hey YouTube alright here
we go
people at home what types of
advertisements are more powerful the
ones on TV or the ones in newspapers do
you pause the video maybe write a nice
comment below I'll ask the question
again just in case you've missed it huh
what's that examiner you didn't hear me
what types of advertisements are more
powerful the ones on TV or the ones in
newspapers alright well hopefully that
showed you it's possible to answer any
question yeah true and cool let's show
them yeah so guys if you need any more
help with your IELTS test we've got
these radical online courses is a
hundred percent online test preparation
who's got e to language comm you can
sign up for free we deliver live group
classes one-on-one tutorials speaking
and writing feedback we've got overview
lessons methods lessons heaps of
practice questions practice tests and a
lot more and if you're feeling anxious
about your speaking test it's a really
good idea to book a tutorial where you
can work one-on-one with Jay or me or
one of our IELTS teachers and go through
the full test you can deal with all of
your fears and they can give you
feedback as well what you're doing well
and what you can do to improve yeah
that's that's a great place to feel a
bit of anxiety is in a mock speaking
tutorial with one of our expert teachers
because it's just a lot of that anxiety
and nervousness is just about
preparation and experiencing it for the
first time once you experience it then
you feel much more confident and you can
perform a lot better on test day as well
and the good news is you just have to
open up your laptop book your tutorial
it's pretty easy and our expert teachers
are very
good most of whom are excellent
examiner's and live so they certainly
know what to do and how to coach you to
say the right thing
good and if you're on YouTube right now
don't forget to subscribe hit like leave
a comment including the answer to our
fabulous question before and share this
with your friends bananas that's from us
we'll see you in class soon see you soon
[Music]